people get accustomed to explaining the
morality in terms of what they believe
in in a sense your morality is shaped
just as much or more so but what you do
not believe in what defines the
relationship of parent to child do you
really think that's decided by a
document written in a government office
that declares you the parent and
declares the other person's real is that
what really matters we all know people
if most of us have known someone who was
adopted one way or another
maybe not legally maybe you know the
actual parent went away to fight the war
in Iraq or Afghanistan and they ended up
being raised by the uncle and aunt there
are all kinds of different arrangements
that emerge spontaneously especially if
you live in places like Cambodia
it's where there's garfish runs the
Cambodian scarf by the way where they go
through war and poverty who is a parent
and who is their child these are bonds
that really matter
profoundly and they're not always
decided by a piece of paper from the
government and they're definitely not
always decided by say a religious ritual
okay Sara came forward in an interview
just the other day a lot of people
missed this this fell between the cracks
this wasn't really covered in the news
because there's been so much news really
genesee Sara came forward and said that
when she was at family functions the
extended family aunts and uncles and
grandparents she was referred to as a
nisshin's
foster child they called her their
daughter at those family gatherings and
relatives people like aunts and uncles
and grandparents I know relatives
that level Keifer Christmas presents
give her gifts when she came to family
dinners they accepted her they
recognized her they treated her as a
kind of foster child or adopted daughter
she also described the conflict when
days after she turned 18 they made the
transition within their own household
from treating her as an adoptive
daughter to treating her as a sexual
partner or you might even say as a
sister wife as a co wife of an isiand
and that she struggled with and that she
had some kind of confrontation with an
SDN about look what are they now
supposed to tell the aunts and uncles
the grandparents the extended family
when they go to Christmas dinners or
Thanksgiving dinners when they go to
family functions this guy that that
shocked me that really did shock me and
I'm an old man I'm over 40 years old I
didn't think there was much that could
really shock me in that way anymore
you know what maybe it's not maybe it's
not shocking to you because our morality
is not just built on the things we do
believe in it also reflects the things
we don't believe in you know I don't
believe that the relationship between
man and wife is defined by a magic
ritual I don't believe that there's a
God in heaven who decides you know who
gets to sleep with who who's married
who's not okay I think most of the
morality that really matters in our
lives is contractual that we take on
obligations with our intentions with our
commitments with our words with our
deeds sometimes yes with the signature
on a piece of paper but very often the
most important moral commitments we make
are never really written out in a
contract okay my first wife and I were
still in the process of divorce legally
okay my first wife and I long before we
got legally married we've referred to
ourselves as husband and wife she used
the same last name as me long before the
legal marriage she had an email account
you know with the same last name as my
last name not just in family settings
but for example in the university
setting you know where she finished her
university degree that was the name she
used on her you know in her graduation
on her certificate or on her diploma and
you know this is the name she used in
her career in her publications she wrote
and published articles she published at
least one book using my name when we
went to a cocktail party I introduced
her to people as my wife and I was her
husband before we were legally married
later you know we did the paperwork we
also got okay
paperwork doesn't mean a lot to me it
really doesn't okay when I took on that
responsibility when I adopted that
responsibly when I took on that Duty
when I was committed that what this is a
matter of duty and honor and fealty for
me okay and then everyone else
recognizes it right all the family
relations and co-workers and other
people at university okay that's real
that's as real as that kind of
connection gets because I see it's not
really about what I believe in
it's about what I don't believe it
because I don't believe there is a God
in heaven or a magical ritual or magical
lustral waters that get sprinkled on you
by a holy man in some Hindu and Buddhist
traditions that's what it is you have
magical water that you're blessed with
to bless the living it was gonna think
there are different traditions but I
don't believe in any of that stuff so
what's left what's left when you don't
believe in anything else what you
believe in is that contractual nature of
morality of taking on the commitment and
to me that's much more real and much
more moving and much more important than
the difference between being 16 years
old and 17 years old the difference
between 17 years old and 18 years old
right all parties admit that initial
starting sex with Sarah after she turned
18 okay so I'm gonna be devil's advocate
for a second here okay because I said I
think it's
profoundly disturbing I think it's I
think it's even evil that he crossed the
line and had sex with someone whom he
called his daughter even if it was only
a verbal contract even if it was just
something he said to her he said to his
own mother he said to his extended
family aunts and uncles and grandpa's
you know and it's his wife's family even
if it was merely a verbal contract
without any paper right now I think it's
incredibly a moral and disturbing that
he had sex with the with the woman he
called his daughter that he treated as
his foster child okay and to me that has
nothing to do with whether she's 17
years old versus 18 years old we had a
scandal in Canada this was covered in
all the newspapers so this is not rumor
I've read about it the newspapers at
Sony whoa okay we had a scandal in
Canada or a professor lost his job and
ruined his career
because the professor had sex with a
student the student was in her late 40s
as I recall when they had sex and when
the scandal broke she was in her 50s not
a teenager not underage to say she's a
fully grown woman is an understatement
maybe you don't feel the same way about
this idea okay maybe maybe some of you
in the audience feel that if a professor
has sex with a student is more than 40
years old that that's completely
different from having sex with a student
who's 21 years old okay
I don't feel that way I disagree that's
not how I see it okay because I see the
morality that matters here as being
contractual in nature okay the professor
made a commitment a moral commitment
that he was going to be the man who
evaluated her exam he was going to be
the man who evaluated her essays who
read her essays and assigned a grade to
them he was going to be the man who was
going to take on the higher duty of
helping her in theory as a student
helping her find her way to a career
okay there this is not an exhaustive
list of the moral elements of the
relationship of teacher to people
professor to student okay these are some
aspects okay
the commitment he made does not change
whether the student is 21 31 41 51 years
old
that's invariable right it's the same no
matter what the age of the student is no
sure if the student were 15 it's worse
of course it's it's worse but I've got
to tell you for me fundamentally the
moral commitment we're talking about
here this contractual morality right
it's not about when exactly was your
birthday like one exactly did you turn
18 that commitment is still there okay
so when I look at an S seen in this
here's here's the counter argument here
the counter let's say there's a parallel
universe let's say this is a secret door
to a parallel universe
you wonder what this in all my videos I
can open this door walk through the
portal into a parallel universe where
there's another guy who looks just like
me but he's got a goatee and is wearing
a turtleneck sweater in the parallel
universe let's say hypothetically a
Nissen and Sarah never met they never
saw each other on the internet they were
complete strangers initia never adopted
her and as he never said that she was
his daughter they never they never had
the relationship of a foster child the
foster parent okay let's just say
there's a parallel universe where none
of that happened instead they lived
their lives completely separately until
one day after she was 18 years old and
his parallel universe Sarah decided to
exercise her legal rights and fly to Los
Angeles California and get a job in the
hardcore pornography industry and in
this parallel universe hey guys you may
not like it this is the this is legally
and socially normal in America at 18
years old you can be a stripper you can
appear in pornography you can join the
army and shoot people in that all that
stuff is
happening with eighteen-year-olds as the
protagonists and their own stories and
let's say in this parallel universe and
it scene had never met this girl
they had no relationship and he also
flew to California and signed up to work
in the pornography industry he said he
got tired of doing YouTube or maybe he
felt his YouTube channel was slowly
degenerating into pornography anyway and
let's just say for both of them the one
they happened to meet and have sex in
the pornography industry let's say both
of them had already slept with a hundred
people that they met after they both
they'd been in the industry for a while
and for each of them each was for the
other number 101
that's a parallel universe that could
exist and right now there literally are
18 year olds in the hardcore porn
history who've had sex with a hundred
people right they give interviews you
can look up the interviews it's okay
that would be a completely different
universe a completely different scenario
in the same way that the University
professor in theory in some parallel
universe could have met this woman 47
years old it had no more relationship no
obligation no duty no code of honor he
was violating right the beat that'd be
different he could have met her
unwritten right and we would have to
evaluate that differently what matters
to me really fundamentally is not the
age written on a piece of paper it's not
you know the exact date when Sarah
turned 18 all right I really think
there's something profoundly important
and at the same time profoundly morally
disturbing about the nature of the
commitment that's made here the moral
contract that's made when you went out
and told people in your own family
according to Sarah
you told people this is your daughter
you accepted that responsibility that
she would be like a daughter to you that
she would be your foster child you
ask your extended family to treat her
and regard her as your foster show to me
that's a bond and a commitment and a
duty just as real as if I show up with
my current girlfriend if me and my
girlfriend go to family functions and if
I tell those people that they should
refer to us as man and wife as husband
and wife that every one of the extended
family should wear garters most that I'm
taking on that Duty okay then what
happens then what happens if my
girlfriend gets pregnant after I've done
that let's just say me and my girlfriend
let's say for just one year we went
around telling everyone we were we were
married and everyone else is you know
responding accordingly this is
recognized in society they've stayed
with you and then if my girlfriend gets
pregnant then what I can't change my
mind after that right
you made this commitment you made this
responsibility in every meaningful sense
from my perspective if you tell people
that if you make that verbal contract if
you make that commitment if you adopt
that responsibility you are man and wife
because I don't really believe in the
government paperwork and I don't really
believe in the supernatural stuff the
relationship with man and God or
believing that the church or religion
decides who's man or wife right
precisely because of all things I don't
believe in that's what makes this other
this other kind of commitment this other
kind of contract ultimately comes down
to a sense of personal responsibility
duty and honor all the more real okay I
knew a couple I'm going to keep this
real vague I knew a married couple who
went to Cambodia and they found a pair
of orphans so a brother and sister who
had no parents in Cambodia
and they started to raise this pair of
orphans they started to refer to them as
their own
kids and they started but didn't
complete the legal paperwork to adopt
them to take them on in some capacity
okay that couple they were white people
who went to Cambodia they were both in
very poor health I think they just
didn't expect to have biological
children due to their poor health
keeping this vague then one day the man
in the couple had a motorcycle accident
it wasn't killed but you know it's bad
motorcycle accident he had to go to a
hospital and get treatment and
complications of physiotherapy and you
know he recovered with her so all of a
sudden adopting those two kids was
inconvenient and they just walked away
like it was nothing I regard those
people as the scum of the earth to me
it's it's completely completely morally
despicable because what you're saying is
what you're saying is that those were
only your kids when it was convenient
for you
you don't expect yourself to keep up
that commitment you made to raise those
children as your own if you have a
motorcycle accident and what
reciprocally if that's your son if
that's your daughter don't you expect
them to be kind and caring towards you
when you're recovering from the
motorcycle accident I think those kids
probably would have been probably it
would have been an opportunity for you
guys to really get a lot closer
Cambodian is not an easy language to
learn by the way maybe speak Cambodian
together everyday like if you're gonna
be lying on the couch for six months or
something getting over a motorcycle I
think that could be a great bonding time
for you and those kids and they remember
for the rest of their lives
that was when they really had all this
quality time with you when you were laid
up an accident okay how would you expect
those kids to treat you when you had a
motorcycle accident after after you
started calling them your children okay
I just wanna say it's not that I believe
that words are magical here okay it's
exactly that I don't believe anything is
magical that there there is as a result
in terms of what remains in this world
for us this unbelievable weighty
significance yes to taking on a contract
even if it's only a verbal contract a
Nisshin
if you said that girl is your daughter
and Kai I've seen you do it I've seen
Lanie on camera saying it so Kai I know
you did it I know he did it on the
Internet and according to Sarah you did
it face to face in person with your
extended family you said that was your
foster child that they should treat her
as your adoptive daughter but apparently
your word your commitment means nothing
to you and soullow i I just don't have
words to say how utterly morally
despicable it is that you took on that
responsibility you took on that moral
duty you drew that line for yourself
that nobody should ever cross and then
days after she turned 18 when it was
convenient for you
you crossed